{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was include.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.7 r1239 (released Apr 04 2014) on Fri Jun 13 10:44:55 2014
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Most of this first page will be blank in RTF because we begin this file with an include file. We have a short message from our rtf text that will start on the next page.\par
\page
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 This comment will only show up in the RTF conversion of a tex file.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 We return you to the normal latex file now. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection01}1{\*\bkmkend BMsection01}  This is the first section in file {\f3 include.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the next section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection02 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}} in this file, and one to the first subsection in the first include file {\f3 include1} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}. This is a reference {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection31 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.0.1}}} to the first subsubsection in the file {\f3 include3} that is included by {\f3 include2}.\par
\page
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection11}1.1{\*\bkmkend BMsection11}  This is the first subsection from file {\f3 include1.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the next subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection12 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.2}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection12}1.2{\*\bkmkend BMsection12}  This is the second subsection from file {\f3 include1.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the previous subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}.\par
\page
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection21}1.3{\*\bkmkend BMsection21}  This is the first subsection in file {\f3 include2.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the next subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection22 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.4}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection22}1.4{\*\bkmkend BMsection22}  This is the second subsection in file {\f3 include2.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the previous subsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.3}}}. Here is a reference to the first section in {\f3 include1.tex} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Now we include another file from within an included file\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection3}2{\*\bkmkend BMsection3}  Testing how including files within other files\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 The trick here is to test the various ways that files might be included within another file. \par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection31}2.0.1{\*\bkmkend BMsection31}  This is the first subsubsection from file {\f3 include3.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the next subsubsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection32 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.0.2}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection32}2.0.2{\*\bkmkend BMsection32}  This is the second subsubsection from file {\f3 include3.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the previous subsubsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection31 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.0.1}}}. Here is a reference to the first subsection from {\f3 include1.tex} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 This is the content following {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input\{include3\}}. There should be no pagebreak.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection41}2.0.3{\*\bkmkend BMsection41}  This is the first subsubsection from file {\f3 include4.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the next subsubsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection42 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.0.4}}} and one in the next input file {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection52 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.0.6}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection42}2.0.4{\*\bkmkend BMsection42}  This is the second subsubsection from file {\f3 include4.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the previous subsubsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection41 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.0.3}}}. Here is a reference to the first subsection from {\f3 include1.tex} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}. This is the content following {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input include4 }. There should be no pagebreak.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection02}3{\*\bkmkend BMsection02}  This is the second section in file {\f3 include.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is some text to create a paragraph or two so that we can see if this works or not. It will be interesting to see if the labels work properly. As I create these testing files I realize that I need to add parsing support for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} and {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} in the getSection function. Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the first subsection in {\f3 include2.tex} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.3}}}. Here is a reference to the first subsection in {\f3 include1.tex} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}. And finally one to the first section of this file {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection01 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection51}3.0.5{\*\bkmkend BMsection51}  This is the first subsubsection from file {\f3 include5.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Here is a reference to the next subsubsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection52 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.0.6}}} and one in the previous input file {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection42 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.0.4}}}. Notice that the reference to the next subsubsection is 3.0.5 and not 3.0.1. This shows sections reset subsection counters, but not subsubsection counters. How bizarre! \par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsection52}3.0.6{\*\bkmkend BMsection52}  This is the second subsubsection from file {\f3 include5.tex}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Furthermore, after reading the {\plain L{\up5\fs16 A}T{\dn6 E}X}{} book, I see that {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\include} files will all start on a new page. This is not the case for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input} files. Here is a reference to the previous subsubsection {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection51 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3.0.5}}}. Here is a reference to the first subsection from {\f3 include1.tex} {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsection11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1.1}}}. This is the content following {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 \\input include5.tex}. There should be no pagebreak.\par
}}
}}}