{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was linux.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.7 r1239 (released Apr 04 2014) on Fri Jun 13 10:44:56 2014
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
{\header\pard\plain\tqc\tx4250\tqr\tx8500 \tab
by C\u233?sar da Silva\par}
\paperw11960\paperh16900\margl1800\margr1660\margt2180\margb1700\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Linux \par
\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 VS.\par
\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 AIX, HP\endash UX, Tru64 UNIX, Solaris\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300  By \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {\fs28 C\u233?sar da silva} \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 ({\i na98csa@student.hig.se}) \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Instructor: Andreas Larsson \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 UNIVERSITY OF G\u196?VLE\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 \chdate \par
{\page
\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300  There has been a lot of talk in the press that Linux is not ready for the enterprise server market where the demand for high availability, performance and security are the main issues. This report will look at what the latest Linux kernel doesn\rquote t have in comparison to the main Unix actors within the enterprise server market and finally conclude if Linux is ready for the enterprise server market or what features Linux have to implement to compete with the other Unix clones to get into the enterprise server market. This is a comparative report who got its information mainly from the original UNIX supplier\rquote s homepage, books, articles and from people doing technical support. The information is put together, sorted out, and compared to see which features Linux is lacking in comparison to other Unix\rquote s and and if it has more functions then the other operating systems, and finally got to the conclusion that Linux is not yet ready for the enterprise market. To penetrate the enterprise server market it has to implement support for more amount of memory, more high\endash availability functions and more security functions. It could not be verified if Linux has more features than any of the compared operating systems due to the lack of information. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi0 \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi0 This is a second paragraph just to see how the indentation for the abstract environment works. It is not at all clear what the indentation should be.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300 Keywords: {\i0\scaps0\b Linux, operating system, AIX, HP-UX, True64 UNIX, Solaris, enterprise} \par
}{\par \pard \page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb600 \fi0 Thanks\par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Thanks to my wife for her patience, the Linux kernel developers (especially those mentioned in the appendix), Jan Strage, Ian P. Springer, and Joel Eriksson for their help. \par
}\par \pard \page
\pard\plain\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  Contents\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\field{\*\fldinst TOC \\o "1-3" }{\fldrslt }}
\page
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0 0.1  OPEN PUBLICATION LICENSE\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 0.1.1  REQUIREMENTS ON BOTH UNMODIFIED AND MODIFIED VERSIONS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The Open Publication works may be reproduced and distributed in whole or in part, in any medium physical or electronic, provided that the terms of this license are adhered to, and that this license or an incorporation of it by reference (with any options elected by the author(s) and/or publisher) is displayed in the reproduction.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Proper form for an incorporation by reference is as follows:\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 {Copyright \'a9 2001 by C\u233?sar da Silva. This material may be distributed only subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Open Publication License, v1.0 or later (the latest version is presently available at {\f2 http://www.opencontent.org/openpub/}).}\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 The reference must be immediately followed with any options elected by the author(s) and/or publisher of the document (see section VI).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Commercial redistribution of Open Publication-licensed material is permitted.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Any publication in standard (paper) book form shall require the citation of the original publisher and author. The publisher and author\rquote s names shall appear on all outer surfaces of the book. On all outer surfaces of the book the original publishers name shall be as large as the title of the work and cited as possessive with respect to the title.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \fi0 0.1.2  COPYRIGHT\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The copyright to each Open Publication is owned by its author(s) or designee.\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \fi0 0.1.3  SCOPE OF LICENSE\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The following license terms apply to all Open Publication works, unless otherwise explicitly stated in the document.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Mere aggregation of Open Publication works or a portion of an Open Publication work with other works or programs on the same media shall not cause this license to apply to those other works. The aggregate work shall contain a notice specifying the inclusion of the Open Publication material and appropriate copyright notice. {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300  {SEVERABILITY.} If any part of this license is found to be unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the remaining portions of the license remain in force.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300  {NO WARRANTY.} Open Publication works are licensed and provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose or a warranty of non-infringement. \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 0.1.4  REQUIREMENTS ON MODIFIED WORKS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 All modified versions of documents covered by this license, including translations, anthologies, compilations and partial documents, must meet the following requirements: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 1.\tab
The modified version must be labeled as such. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 2.\tab
The person making the modifications must be identified and the modifications dated. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 3.\tab
Acknowledgement of the original author and publisher if applicable must be retained according to normal academic citation practices. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 4.\tab
The location of the original unmodified document must be identified. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 5.\tab
The original author\rquote s (or authors\rquote ) name(s) may not be used to assert or imply endorsement of the resulting document without the original author\rquote s (or authors\rquote ) permission. \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 0.1.5  GOOD-PRACTICE RECOMMENDATIONS \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 In addition to the requirements of this license, it is requested from and strongly recommended of redistributors that: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 1.\tab
If you are distributing Open Publication works on hardcopy or CD-ROM, you provide email notification to the authors of your intent to redistribute at least thirty days before your manuscript or media freeze, to give the authors time to provide updated documents. This notification should describe modifications, if any, made to the document.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 2.\tab
All substantive modifications (including deletions) be either clearly marked up in the document or else described in an attachment to the document. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Finally, while it is not mandatory under this license, it is considered good form to offer a free copy of any hardcopy and CD-ROM expression of an Open Publication-licensed work to its author(s).\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \fi0 0.1.6  LICENSE OPTIONS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The author(s) and/or publisher of an Open Publication-licensed document may elect certain options by appending language to the reference to or copy of the license. These options are considered part of the license instance and must be included with the license (or its incorporation by reference) in derived works.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 A. To prohibit distribution of substantively modified versions without the explicit permission of the author(s). "Substantive modification" is defined as a change to the semantic content of the document, and excludes mere changes in format or typographical corrections.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 To accomplish this, add the phrase \lquote Distribution of substantively modified versions of this document is prohibited without the explicit permission of the copyright holder.\rquote  to the license reference or copy.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 B. To prohibit any publication of this work or derivative works in whole or in part in standard (paper) book form for commercial purposes is prohibited unless prior permission is obtained from the copyright holder.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 To accomplish this, add the phrase \rquote Distribution of the work or derivative of the work in any standard (paper) book form is prohibited unless prior permission is obtained from the copyright holder.\rquote  to the license reference or copy. \par
\column
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 0.2  CHANGES\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Here are the changes made to the documentation after the thesis had been handed in. {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Corrected the reference point of ACL on HP-UX from 30 to 44 (see page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMchange1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{change1}}}).\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added the following supported file systems to HP-UX: CDFS, HFS, LOFS, ISO9660, Rockridge, and High Sierra (see page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMchange2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{change2}}}).\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added reference and marks in table for HP-UX NFS v2 & v3 support (see page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMchange3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{change3}}}).\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added support for LVM for HP-UX (see page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMchange4 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{change4}}}).\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Splitted up Bibliography in sections (see the bibliography on page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMbiblio \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{biblio}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added BSD Process Accounting to kernel specific features table and a explanation (see page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMprocacc \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{procacc}}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMchange5 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{change5}}}).\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Changed \ldblquote Result analys\rdblquote  to: {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote Linux has support for a more kinds of file systems and architectures than any other operating system in this thesis. But it lacks high-availability and security features\u160?(like Live upgrade, dynamic memory/processor resilience, HSM, ACL, IPSec...).\rdblquote \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi0 See page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMresultanalys \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{resultanalys}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added text to \ldblquote Conclusions\rdblquote :{\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote For Linux to get into the enterprise server market it has to include support for more memory, high-availability and security features, to make it more competitive against the other operating systems. The features Linux lacks of right now are:{\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Dynamic processor/memory resilience. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Dynamic page sizing. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Live upgrade. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
ACL \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Hierarchical storage management. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
CacheFS \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1712\ri512\fi-300 \bullet\tab
IPSec\rdblquote  \par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li600\fi0 See page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMconclusions \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{conclusions}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Removed item \ldblquote Compare the different operating systems network features.\rdblquote  from the section Conclusions (see page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMconclusions \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{conclusions}}}).\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added REALIZATION chapter with the following text:{\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote Most of the work has been done by reading various different documentation,asking technical support, and identifying if the mentioned functions were implemented in the kernel. The functions was then inserted into a table to finally get to a result.\rdblquote \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi0 See page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMrealization \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{realization}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added section IMPLEMENTATION to the REALIZATION chapter with the following text:{\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote The implementation of the missing functions are beyond the scope of this thesis. They are left to the developers of the Linux kernel.\rdblquote \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi0 . See page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMimplementation \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{implementation}}}\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Changed the text {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote Many combinations are possible but I have only seen a few referred to.\rdblquote \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi0 on page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMchange10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{change10}}} to {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote Many other combinations are possible.\rdblquote \par
}\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li1112\ri512\fi0 \ldblquote There are more kernel options in the Linux kernel then those mentioned in this thesis, but due to the lack of missing information if those functions are available or not on the other operating systems and if they are implemented in the kernel, they are not mentioned in this thesis. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li1112\ri512\fi0 This is also true for some functions that the other operating systems have, but that couldn\rquote t be confirmed if they existed in the Linux kernel.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li1112\ri512\fi0 This would lead to a incorrect and unfair analys of the functions in the kernels.\rdblquote \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi0 to section \ldblquote DELIMINATION OF THE PROBLEM AREA\rdblquote . See page {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 PAGEREF BMdelimination \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{delimination}}}.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Added a picture to the NUMA section to show what SMP and NUMA is. \par
}\column
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Chapter 1\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 INTRODUCTION\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 Linux is a free clone of the operating system Unix, created by Linus Torvald, originally developed as a hobby project. It was first developed for 32-bit x86-based PCs{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} 386 or higher.}
. These days it also runs on various other computer architectures. Here is a list of the supported architectures that Linux runs on
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_24 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{67}}}
]: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Compaq Alpha AXP \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Sun \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
SPARC \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
UltraSPARC \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Motorola 68000 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
PowerPC \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
ARM \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Hitachi SuperH \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
IBM S/390 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
MIPS \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
HP PA-RISC \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Intel IA-64 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
DEC VAX \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
AMD x86-64{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Port is currently in progress.}
 \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The popularity of Linux among home users is increasing rapidly, and contributed to a wider acceptance of UNIX among home users
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{77}}}
]. Linux is also beginning to get into the embedded/PDA market 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{63}}}
]. Linux is having more difficulty in being established on the enterprise server market, where it is mostly used for Internet related tasks
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{77}}}
]. This document is going to encounter what features the Linux kernel is lacking in comparation to other Unix kernel.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 1.1  PROBLEM DEFINITION\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The major obstacle Linux is having is in getting into the enterprise server market. Whenever Linux gets into a corporation it\rquote s only used for Internet related assignments, and not in the "heart" of the corporation.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_4 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{64}}}
] Historically, large corporations have steered clear of free software due to the unfounded assumption that anything free can\rquote t be worthwhile and also because Linux has a reputation of being unstable, lack of performance, support, and to not provide for the high degree of security that the enterprises requires about redundancy and high availability in comparison to other UNIX operating systems and Microsoft Windows NT/200 operating systems. This myth are somewhat dispelled in reference.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_5 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{65}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 1.2  AIM\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 This report will look at what the other Unix systems used on the enterprise server market, have support for in the kernel that Linux doesn\rquote t have. The UNIX operating systems that are going to be measure up against Linux latest kernel are:\par
{{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
AIX{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} AIX is copyrighted by IBM.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
True64 UNIX{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Tru64 UNIX is copyrighted by Compaq.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Solaris{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Solaris is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
HP-UX{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} HP-UX is copyrighted by Hewlett Packard.}
 \par
}}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The latest official, not modified version of every operating system is utilized. Ultimately resolve what features Linux needs to implement in the kernel, in comparison to the Unix operating system referred to above, so that it can be established and used in the enterprise market or in the government agencies.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 The report might be used as a guide to the enterprises or governments that are planning on adapting Linux or to give a indication to the Linux kernel developers on what features Linux would have to implement in the kernel in comparison to the above mentioned operating system to get an better acceptance and be more widely used in the enterprise/government market. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 1.3  QUESTIONS AT ISSUE\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
What features doesn\rquote t Linux have in the kernel that other Unix kernels have?  \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Does any of the other Unix operating system have more features than Linux?  \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 1.4  EXPECTED RESULT\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The expected result is that Linux is ready for the enterprise market, because it probably has all the features that all the other UNIX system already have. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Chapter 2\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 THEORETICAL BACKGROUND\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb490 \fi0 2.1  KERNEL/OPERATING SYSTEM\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 A kernel is merely a computer program that acts as a mediator through which the user interacts with the computer and its components and peripheral devices (processor, processes, files, disks, terminals, printers, plotters, etc.). A UNIX operating system consists of a kernel and some system programs. There are also some application programs for doing work. The kernel is the heart of the operating system{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} In fact, it is often mistakenly considered to be the operating system itself, but it is not. An operating system provides many more services than a plain kernel.}
. It keeps track of files on the disk, starts programs and runs them concurrently, assigns memory and other resources to various processes, receives packets from and sends packets to the network, and so on. The kernel does very little by itself, but it provides tools with which all services can be built. It also prevents anyone from accessing the hardware directly, forcing everyone to use the tools it provides. This way the kernel provides some protection for users from each other. The tools provided by the kernel are used via system calls. When loaded, the module code resides in the kernel\rquote s address space and executes entirely within the context of the kernel. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Everything that the kernel support does not have to be in memory all the time. Now days most of the kernels are modular. It means that some system functions are loaded into memory when needed.A kernel module is simply an object file containing routines and/or data to load into a running kernel. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 The system programs use the tools provided by the kernel to implement the various services required from an operating system. System programs, and all other programs, run \lquote on top of the kernel\rquote , in what is called the user mode. The difference between system and application programs is one of intent: applications are intended for getting useful things done (or for playing, if it happens to be a game), whereas system programs are needed to get the system working. A word processor is an application; telnet is a system program. The difference is often somewhat blurry. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 An operating system can also contain compilers and their corresponding libraries (GCC and the C library in particular under Linux), although not all programming languages need be part of the operating system. Documentation, and sometimes even games, can also be part of it. Traditionally, the operating system has been defined by the contents of the installation disks; with Linux it is not as clear since it is spread all over the FTP sites of the world or bundled with different distributions. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
{\pard\plain\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0  {\par
\pard\plain\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 **Missing** \par
}\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Figure {\*\bkmkstart BMfig_OperatingSystem}2.1{\*\bkmkend BMfig_OperatingSystem}: Block diagram of an operating system.}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2.1 Block diagram of an operating system." \\f f}{\fldrslt }}\par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb480 \fi0 2.2  HISTORY OF UNIX\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson at Bell Laboratories developed UNIX on a PDP-7 in the late 1960s; it was first called UNIX in 1970. After 1975, UNIX developed along two separate branches leading to Berkeley (BSD) UNIX and System V UNIX. Nowadays, System V UNIX is available on most computers but different to popular belief, there is no such thing as a "standard" UNIX version. Although the basic commands are available in most UNIX implementations, hardware vendors like to add non-standard options and an identical item commands to tailor their UNIX to their machines. Standardization is, however, being undertaken by the Open Software Foundation (OSF) and, separately, by Unix International; the first precede, OSF/1, is running on the new DEC an Alpha computer. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Since the mid-1980s approximately, UNIX has evolved into the operating system of choice for most machines (probably because it is cheap for a hardware vendor to adopt it), which means that users in a multi-vendor computer environment no longer have to learn a new operating system whenever they get a new computer (now they only have to familiarize themselves with the system-specific extensions).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 UNIX does have some strong points: it is fairly portable, flexible (i.e., easy to change, adapt and extend) and contains several powerful utilities. Also, it supports multiple users and multi-tasking. Nevertheless, UNIX is still very much an operating system for computer programmers; in skilled hands, it is very powerful, but to the novice end-user it is sometimes a nightmare (system-specific extensions, inconsistent syntax). Fortunately, on the modern graphics workstations more and more tools become available which make life easier.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 2.3  UNIX PRODUCT OVERVIEW\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b AIX} {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} AIX is copyrighted by IBM.}
 was the first major second-generation UNIX product to ship after Sun and HP established its UNIX beachheads in the 1980s.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
] AIX 5L is the first version of AIX to support platforms other than IBM\rquote s Power-based hardware. This version runs also on systems based on Intel\rquote s upcoming 64-bit Itanium (IA-64) processor, putting IBM in a strong position to take an early lead on IA-64 with a production-grade UNIX system available on the day of shipment. It now also has the capability to run Linux programs, which are compiled with their "AIX Toolbox for Linux" package.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b HP-UX} {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} HP-UX is copyrighted by Hewlett Packard.}
 \endash  HP has long been a leading supplier of commercial UNIX solutions, succeeding in part by emphasizing business-oriented factors such as quality, investment protection, consulting abilities, and support. In the 80s, HP was one of the first major vendors to predict the market potential of an improve and robust UNIX operating system. HP seeks to position HP-UX as the preferred enterprise UNIX for next-generation commodity servers based on IA-64. Due in part to its focus on the needs of business users, HP has a history of introducing advanced UNIX functions conservatively in HP-UX, optimizing instead for criteria such as stability and investment protection. But with HP-UX 11i announced in July 2000, HP clearly showed its intensions about pushing HP-UX technically, including a burst of competitive tactical features in the newest release. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_8 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{9}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b SOLARIS 8} {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Solaris is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems.}
 \endash  Sun originally made UNIX fashionable. After establishing itself as a leading supplier of high-performance workstations during the 1980s and early 1990s, Sun shifted its strategic goal to becoming a first-tier vendor of enterprise servers.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
] Sun announced the Solaris 8 release on January 26, 2000. Sun also announced the free access to the Solaris source and end-user binary. The Solaris 8 Operating Environment is available for both the SPARC(tm) and Intel platforms.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b TRU64 UNIX} {\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Tru64 UNIX is copyrighted by Compaq.}
 derives from a long and sometimes contentious relationship between UNIX culture and Digital Equipment Corporation, which Compaq purchased in early 1998. Unix was born and bred on Digital hardware in the 1970s. AT&T and universities mostly drove UNIX development, but Digital always maintained a UNIX group to develop and support drivers as well as to test new designs on UNIX. Digital eventually released ULTRIX, which was UNIX improved by clearer documentation, enhancements specific to Digital hardware, and support services. As the industry began to use UNIX more, Digital along with other vendors, funded efforts such as the X Window System, the Open Software Foundation (OSF) initiative. Tru64 UNIX became the first in the industry to move to 64 bits, and also played an early role in the creation of Linux by donating resources and equipment so that Linux had a native Alpha port by 1994.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}
] The latest Tru64 UNIX v5.1 was released in the fall of 2000. Today, Compaq\rquote s Alpha UNIX business is focused on five strategic markets: Business Intelligence, High Performance Technical Computing, Telco and Internet Applications, and Enterprise Applications.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b LINUX} \endash  Linus Torvalds, a Finnish student, first developed Linux{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Linux is a trademark by Linus Torvalds.}
 in 1991. He developed a minimal Unix kernel and posted a message to an Internet newsgroup, asking if anyone would be interested in helping him to develop it. First tens, then hundreds of individuals began dedicating their free time to developing Linux. Now the number of volunteers has grown into the thousands. Individuals volunteer their time to perform such tasks as kernel debugging, quality control, and writing documentation.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 A Linux distribution includes the kernel and user utilities from the GNU system, developed by the Free Software Foundation since 1982, which makes it a complete operating system. This tools have been in development for about a decade before the Linux development started. The utilities/tools allows Linux distributions to have a complete set of tools that can be expected of an UNIX operating system. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 There are various distributions that are free to download from the Internet or that you can buy for a small amount of money. The result is a commercial operating system that rivals, or even exceeds, commercial releases of Unix available today. Its stability and breadth of features has captured the attention of network administrators who have deployed Linux for file, print and Web servers. Linux is one of the most popular UNIX clones among home users, which has contributed to a wider acceptance and knowledge of UNIX among end users, where it\rquote s usage is increasing rapidly. Linux is also starting to get its foot into the embedded and corporation market.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_24 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{67}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 The latest stable release branch is version 2.4, which was released on the 4:th of January 2001, which includes many improved enhancements related to the previous versions, the most notable improvement is support for the multitude of printers, digital cameras, scanners, keyboards, mice, network cards, modems, Zip drives and other devices that plug into the universal serial bus (USB) port, SMP, and 3-D accelerated cards. The new kernel is already included in various Linux distributions (SuSe, Linux Mandrake, Red Hat\u8230?.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_12 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{66}}}
] \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 2.4  PREVIOUS RESEARCH\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 There is no known research of this kind about Linux. The latest kernel version 2.4.x branch, was released on the 4:th of January 2001
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_12 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{66}}}
]. If any similar research before has been done, it would be with an older branch of the kernel, which means that the research is not up to date and hence not the same as this report. There is a research by D.H. Brown Associates, Inc that compares AIX 4.3.3, HP-UX 11i, Solaris 8, Tru64 UNIX 5.1 and UNIXWARE 7.1.1 to each other, Linux is never compared in this studies.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMimportanttheories}2.5{\*\bkmkend BMimportanttheories}  IMPORTANT THEORIES\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 2.5.1  KERNEL SPECIFIC FEATURES\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b KERNEL THREADS} {\*\bkmkstart BMkernel_threads}{\*\bkmkend BMkernel_threads}\endash  A thread (as defined by Maurice Bach\rquote s \ldblquote The Design of the UNIX Operating System\rdblquote ) is an independent flow of control within a process, composed of a context (including register set and a program counter) and a sequence of instructions to execute. The traditional flow of control within a program has been a process with a single context of registers, following a single path through the code. This is referred to as the \ldblquote process-base\rdblquote  or \ldblquote single-threaded model\rdblquote . For an application in a single-threaded model to handle multiple tasks, it would have to break those tasks up into multiple processes, coordinate with signal handlers to provide some concurrency, or simply deal with those tasks serially (one after the other).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_32 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{32}}}
] In this case it is the kernel itself and not a user-space process that is threaded. This allows for independent tasks in the kernel to be run synchronously instead of being forced to use asynchronous multiplexing between activities.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b HOT SWAP} {\*\bkmkstart BMhotswap}{\*\bkmkend BMhotswap}\endash  Allows changing peripheral while the computer is running. This means that there is no need to stop the system while hardware maintenance is done (i.e. changing a faulty hard disk).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_22 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{30}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b SYSV INTERPROCESS COMMUNICATION (IPC)} {\*\bkmkstart BMipc}{\*\bkmkend BMipc} is a set of programming interface that allow a programmer to create and manage individual program process that can run concurrently in an operating system. This allows a program to handle many user requests at the same time. Since a single user request may result in multiple processes running in the operating system on the user\rquote s behalf, the processes need to communicate with other. The IPC interfaces make this possible. Each IPC method has its own advantages and limitations so it is not unusual for a single program to use all of the IPC methods. IPC methods include: 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 \bullet\tab
pipe and named pipe \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 \bullet\tab
message queueing \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 \bullet\tab
semaphore \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 \bullet\tab
shared memory \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 \bullet\tab
sockets \par
}\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b DYNAMIC PROCESSOR RESILIENCE} {\*\bkmkstart BMdynprocres}{\*\bkmkend BMdynprocres} \endash  The operating system isolates faulty CPUs. In the event of a non-fatal error that allows the system to continue processing, the system discontinues the usage of the failed CPU. If the system crashes because of the faulty CPU, the system will restart and isolate the faulty CPU.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b DYNAMIC MEMORY RESILIENCE} {\*\bkmkstart BMdynmemres}{\*\bkmkend BMdynmemres} allow the operating system to isolate faulty memory areas that suffer from single-bit errors, so that the software wont use any of unreliable memory are.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b DYNAMIC PAGE SIZING} {\*\bkmkstart BMdynpagesize}{\*\bkmkend BMdynpagesize} \endash  UNIX operating systems normally uses fixed\endash size pages to perform I/O operations. But some application may benefit from variable page sizes. For example, programs that uses many small files (such as e-mail servers) may operate more efficiently with small pages, while I/O\endash intensive programs using large blocks transfers may run better with larger page sizes.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ALTERNATE I/O PATHING} {\*\bkmkstart BMaltiopath}{\*\bkmkend BMaltiopath} allows the operating system to re-route the I/O of devices, such as disk or network adapters, to a backup device, in case of failure.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b LIVE UPGRADE} {\*\bkmkstart BMliveupg}{\*\bkmkend BMliveupg} allows installation of operating system image to occur simultaneously while the system is being use.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b BSD Process Accounting} {\*\bkmkstart BMprocacc}{\*\bkmkend BMprocacc}allow for a user-space program to record detailed information about any particular process, how much memory and CPU cycles it utilized, the owner, when it began and ended, etc. \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 2.5.2  DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The normal usage of distributed systems is to archive high-performance systems, load-balancing{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} The main system distributes the system load between the different CPUs belonging to the system.}
 and high-availability{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Systems that no matter what, have to run 24 hour a day and 7 days a week.}
 systems or any combination of them.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b SYMMETRIC MULTI-PROCESSING MODEL (SMP)} {\*\bkmkstart BMsmp}{\*\bkmkend BMsmp} \endash  In a symmetric multiprocessing model (often abbreviated as SMP) all the processors share identical copy of the same operating system, memory, I/O resources, and the copies of the operating system communicate with one another as needed. Since all processors in an SMP server must be able to access all system resources simultaneously, operating systems are deeply involved in the quality of an SMP implementation. Indeed, enabling a kernel to effectively manage large numbers of processors has traditionally presented an extraordinary and tedious challenge for operating-system developers.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 There is no generally appropriate way to anticipate how well an application will scale on an SMP system under real\endash world conditions, but the TCP-C (Transaction Processing Performance Council) benchmark is the most widely accepted method to measure SMP systems. TCP-C are vendor-neutral and subjected to rigorous auditing procedures. The test stresses a number of system components that are frequently exercised in commercial-server applications.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_28 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{78}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 But as you can read from the TCP-C testes, biggest is not always best, because they don\rquote t scale well. And all vendors seldom sell machines with their maximum amount of possible processors (look at the vendors offerings).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_28 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{78}}}
] \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b NON-UNIFORM MEMORY ACCESS (NUMA)} {\*\bkmkstart BMnuma}{\*\bkmkend BMnuma} \endash  On a multi processor system the processors normally share the same bus to the memory and I/O devices. This means that all CPUs in the system are subjected to the same latency and bandwidth restrictions with respect to accessing the system\rquote s memory and I/O channels. Uniform Memory Access (UMA) is a term sometimes used to describe this system architecture. One way to address this bottleneck is to design a system built from SMP blocks (each with a limited number of CPUs, memory arrays and I/O ports) and add a second-level bus or switch to connect the blocks. Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) is the term used to describe this type of system architecture because it results in a bandwidth and latency difference, depending on whether a particular CPU accesses memory and I/O resources locally (in the same building block where the CPU resides) or remotely (in another building block).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_14 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{27}}}
] \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 2.5.3  DISTRIBUTED FILE SYSTEMS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Distributed file system stores files on one or more computers called servers, and makes them accessible to other computers called clients, where they appear as normal files. There are several advantages to using file servers: the files are more widely available since many computers can access the servers, and sharing the files from a single location is easier than distributing copies of files to individual clients. Backups and safety of the information are easier to arrange since only the servers need to be backed up. The servers can provide large storage space, which might be costly or impractical to supply to every client. The usefulness of a distributed file system becomes clear when considering a group of employees sharing documents. However, more is possible. For example, sharing application software, and printers are an equally good candidate. In both cases system administration becomes easier
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
].\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 The protocols that we are going to get in touch with and that makes use of the functionality of an distributed filesystem are: \par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b NETWORK FILE SYSTEM} {\*\bkmkstart BMnfs}{\*\bkmkend BMnfs} was developed by Sun Microsystems and introduced to the market 1984. The most common used version of NFS are version 2 and 3.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 NFS version 3 contains several features to improve performance, reduce server load, and reduce network traffic. Since NFS version 3 is faster for I/O writes, and uses fewer operations over the network, it will use the network more efficient. Higher throughput may make the network busier. NFS version 3 maintains the stateless server design and simple crash recovery of version 2 along with its approach to build a distributed file service from cooperating protocols.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_19 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{23}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b CODA FILE SYSTEM} {\*\bkmkstart BMcoda}{\*\bkmkend BMcoda} is an experimental file system, with its origin in AFS2{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} AFS is marketed, maintained, and extended by Transarc Corporation. AFS is based on a distributed file system originally developed at the Information Technology Center at Carnegie-Mellon University that was called the Andrew File System.}
, developed in the group of M. Satyanarayanan at Carnegie Mellon University since 1987.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b SERVER MESSAGE BLOCK} {\*\bkmkstart BMsmb}{\*\bkmkend BMsmb} (commonly abbreviated as SMB) protocol. This protocol is sometimes also referred to as the Common Internet File System (CIFS), LanManager or NetBIOS protocol. IBM and Microsoft developed it.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b APPLETALK} {\*\bkmkstart BMappletalk}{\*\bkmkend BMappletalk} is local area network communication protocol originally created for Apple computers. It allows Macintosh computers to communicate, share resources through the network. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_30 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b NETWARE} {\*\bkmkstart BMnetware}{\*\bkmkend BMnetware} made by Novell. Initially very successful in installing its products in large and small office local area networks (LANs), Novell has redesigned (or at least re-featured) NetWare to work successfully as part of larger and heterogeneous networks, including the Internet.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
] \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 2.5.4  FILE SYSTEMS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Almost every operating system has its own filesystem (the mechanism for storage and access to the data and programs on the storage).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 The support of various file systems allows the system to be used for reading/writing to media in an environment with different other operating systems, without the usage of distributed filesystem method. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Here is a short presentation of some{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} There are to many to mention them all in this thesis.}
 of the file systems 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_24 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{67}}}
]:\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b VFAT} \endash  Windows. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b EXT} \endash  Used by older Linux. There is a newer improved version called EXT2. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ISO 9660} \endash  A filesystem standard for CD\rquote s. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b NTFS} \endash  NT. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b HPFS} \endash  OS/2. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b UFS} \endash  used by System V; Coherent; Xenix; BSD; and derivatives like SunOS, FreeBSD, NetBSD, and NeXTStep. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b HFS} \endash  The older Macintosh Hierarchical File System. The newer filesystem is called HFS+. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b AFFS} \endash  Amiga Fast File System. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Memory File System} {\*\bkmkstart BMmfs}{\*\bkmkend BMmfs} \endash  The file\endash system resides completely in virtual memory. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The techniques described below can be stacked in a number of ways to maximize performance and reliability, though at the cost of added complexity. \par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b REDUNDANT ARRAY OF INDEPENDENT DISKS (RAID)} {\*\bkmkstart BMraid}{\*\bkmkend BMraid} is a way of storing the same data in different places (thus, redundantly) on multiple hard disk . By placing data on multiple disks, I/O operations can overlap in a balanced way, improving performance. Since multiple disks increases the mean time between failure (MTBF), storing data redundantly also increases fault-tolerance.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 A RAID appears to the operating system to be a single logical hard disk. RAID employs the technique of striping , which involves partitioning each driver\rquote s storage space into units ranging from a sector (512 bytes) up to several megabytes. The stripes of all the disks are interleaved and addressed in order.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 In a single-user system where large records, such as medical or other scientific images, are stored, the stripes are typically set up to be small (perhaps 512 bytes) so that a single record spans all disks and can be accessed quickly by reading all disks at the same time.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 In a multi-user system, better performance requires establishing a stripe wide enough to hold the typical or maximum size record. This allows overlapped disk I/O across drives. There exists two methods on implementing RAID:
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b Software RAID} \endash  Implemented on the kernel. Slow but cheap. This is the one used in this thesis for comparation. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b Hardware RAID} \endash  Implemented in the hardware and use on SAN\rquote s and almost every SCSI controller has support for it. In comparation to software RAID, hardware RAID is more expensive but also much faster, efficient and has more functions: remote copy, flashcopy\u8230? \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi-300 There are at least nine types of RAID plus a non-redundant array (RAID-0): 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_31 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{31}}}
] {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b RAID-0} \endash  This technique has striping but no redundancy of data. It offers the best performance but no fault-tolerance. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b RAID-1} \endash  This type is also known as disk mirroring and consists of at least two drives that duplicate the storage of data. There is no striping. Read performance is improved since either disk can be read at the same time. Write performance is the same as for single disk storage. RAID-1 provides the best performance and the best fault-tolerance in a multi-user system. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b RAID-2} \endash  This type uses striping across disks with some disks storing error checking and correcting (ECC) information. It has no advantage over RAID-3.{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} RAID-2 and -3 requires spindle synchronization in order to achieve good performance. Very few commodity drives support that today,therefore these RAID levels are almost never used.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b RAID-3} \endash  This type uses striping and dedicates one drive to storing parity information. The embedded error checking (ECC) information is used to detect errors. Data recovery is accomplished by calculating the exclusive OR (XOR) of the information recorded on the other drives. Since an I/O operation addresses all drives at the same time, RAID-3 cannot overlap I/O. For this reason, RAID-3 is best for single-user systems with long record applications. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b RAID-4} \endash  This type uses large stripes, which means you can read records from any single drive. This allows you to take advantage of overlapped I/O for read operations. Since all write operations have to update the parity drive, no I/O overlapping is possible. RAID-4 offers no advantage over RAID-5. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li1200\fi-300 {\b RAID-5} \endash  This type includes a rotating parity array, thus addressing the write limitation in RAID-4. Thus, all read and write operations can be overlapped. RAID-5 stores parity information but not redundant data (but parity information can be used to reconstruct data). RAID-5 requires at least three and usually five disks for the array. It\rquote s best for multi-user systems in which performance is not critical or which do few write operations. \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li600\fi0 There are also hybrids available based on RAID 0 or 1 and one other level. Many other combinations are possible{\*\bkmkstart BMchange10}{\*\bkmkend BMchange10}. These are more complex than the above mentioned RAID levels. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi-300 RAID 0/1 combines striping with duplication which gives very high transfers combined with fast seeks as well as redundancy. The disadvantage is high disk consumption as well as the above mentioned complexity. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi-300 RAID 1/5 combines the speed and redundancy benefits of RAID5 with the fast seek of RAID1. Redundancy is improved compared to RAID 0/1 but disk consumption is still substantial. Implementing such a system would involve typically more than 6 drives, perhaps even several controllers or SCSI channels.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b CACHEFS} {\*\bkmkstart BMcachefs}{\*\bkmkend BMcachefs} improves the efficiency of the client\endash side NFS access by the use of a caching mechanism.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b AUTOFS} {\*\bkmkstart BMautofs}{\*\bkmkend BMautofs} allows an operating system to mount remote FS file systems automatically.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b JOURNALING FILE SYSTEM} {\*\bkmkstart BMjfs}{\*\bkmkend BMjfs} keeps a journal of the activity on your hard disk, so that if your computer crashed for some reason, it will not need to run the file system check procedure. This means a faster start up of a crashed system. Examples of journaling file system are ReiserFS, XFS, JFS and ext3.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_16 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{28}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b LOGICAL VOLUME MANAGER (LVM)} {\*\bkmkstart BMlvm}{\*\bkmkend BMlvm} provides an abstraction of the physical disks that makes the handling of larger file systems and disk arrays easier to administer. It does this by grouping sets of disks (physical volumes) into a pool (volume group). The volume group can be in turn be carved up into virtual partitions (logical volumes) that behave just like the ordinary disk block devices, except that (unlike disk partitions) they can be dynamically grown, shrunk and moved about without rebooting the system or entering into maintenance/stand-alone mode. A file system (or a swap space, or a raw device) sits on top of a logical volume. LVM utilities usually simplify adding, moving and removing hard drives, by abstracting away the file system mount points (/, /usr, /opt, etc) from the hard drive devices (/dev/hda1, /dev/sdb2, etc.). 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_17 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{29}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ACCESS CONTROL LIST (ACL)} {\*\bkmkstart BMacl}{\*\bkmkend BMacl} \endash  Each file and directory has an access list, specifying which users and the type of access they have to it.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b HIERARCHICAL STORAGE MANAGEMENT (HSM)} {\*\bkmkstart BMhsm}{\*\bkmkend BMhsm} systems transparently move files between disk and secondary storage (such as tape), thus providing a large "virtual" disk farm. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
] \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 2.5.5  NETWORK\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b IP V4} {\*\bkmkstart BMipv4}{\*\bkmkend BMipv4}\endash  Internet Protocol version 4 is the protocol used on the Internet today. Works on the network layer on the OSI{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} A network architecture based on a proposal developed by the International Standard Organization (ISO). Its full name is ISO OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) Reference Model }
 model 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
] and is described in RFC{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Technical reports called Request For Comments abbreviated as RFC are stored on-line and can be fetched by anyone interested in them at he following url {\f2 http://dir.yahoo.com/Computers_and_Internet/Standards/RFCs/}. }
 791.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b IP V6} {\*\bkmkstart BMipv6}{\*\bkmkend BMipv6}\endash  A new version of IP (see previous section), support for a near-infinite number of IP addresses, a number so large that it approaches the number of molecules on the planet, solves a variety of problems (specially with security) with the IP v4 and is more flexible and efficient as well. IP v6 is described in RFC 1550. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b VIRTUAL IP ADDRESSES} allows having a backup network card in case of the one in use fails to function. Then the backup car will be assigned the IP address of the original network card, and the user will not notice anything, except for a delay in response. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b SIMPLE NETWORK MANAGEMENT PROTOCOL (SNMP)} {\*\bkmkstart BMsnmp}{\*\bkmkend BMsnmp} \endash  A protocol that is described in RFC 1448 and is a standard in the UNIX environment.SNMP is not actually a protocol: it\rquote s a client server application that runs on the UDP (User Datagram Protocol) service of the TCP/IP protocol suite. It was developed to be an efficient means of sending network management information over UDP, using Ports 161(SNMP) and 162 (SNMPTRAP).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b DECNET} {\*\bkmkstart BMdecnet}{\*\bkmkend BMdecnet} was designed by Digital as a way to interconnect their range of products. The specifications for DECnet Phase IV are freely available. As with TCP/IP there are a number of higher-level protocols layered on top the basic DECnet protocol to provide services to applications.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_30 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ATTACHED RESOURCE COMPUTER NETWORK (ARCNET)} {\*\bkmkstart BMarcnet}{\*\bkmkend BMarcnet} is a network type created before by Datapoint in the end of 70\rquote s which works in a way similar to popular Ethernet networks but which is also different in some very important ways. First of all, you can get ARCnet cards in at least two speeds: 2.5 Mbps (slower than Ethernet) and 100 Mbps (faster than normal Ethernet). In fact, there are others as well, but these are less common. The different hardware types are not compatible, so you cannot wire a 100 Mbps card to a 2.5 Mbps card.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_30 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ASYNCHRONOUS TRANSFER MODE (ATM)} {\*\bkmkstart BMatm}{\*\bkmkend BMatm} is a dedicated-connection switching technology that organizes digital data into 53-byte cell units and transmits them over a physical medium using digital signal technology. Individually, a cell is processed asynchronously relative to other related cells and is queued before being multiplexed over the transmission path.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 Because ATM is designed to be easily implemented by hardware (rather than software), faster processing and switch speeds are possible. The prespecified bit rates are either 155.520 Mbps or 622.080 Mbps. Speeds on ATM networks can reach 10 Gbps. Along with Synchronous Optical Network (SONET) and several other technologies, ATM is a key component of broadband ISDN (BISDN).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b FIBER DISTRIBUTED DATA INTERFACE (FDDI)} {\*\bkmkstart BMfddi}{\*\bkmkend BMfddi} is a standard for data transmission on fiber optic lines in a local area network (LAN) that can extend in range up to 200 km (124 miles). The FDDI protocol is based on the token ring protocol. In addition to being large geographically, an FDDI local area network can support thousands of users. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 An FDDI network contains two token rings, one for possible backup in case the primary ring fails. The primary ring offers up to 100 Mbps capacity. If the secondary ring is not needed for backup, it can also carry data, extending capacity to 200 Mbps. The single ring can extend the maximum distance; a dual ring can extend 100 km (62 miles). 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 FDDI is a product of American National Standards Committee X3-T9 and conforms to the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI ) model of functional layering. It can be used to interconnect LANs using other protocols. FDDI-II is a version of FDDI that adds the capability to add circuit-switched service to the network so that voice signals can also be handled.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ETHERNET} {\*\bkmkstart BMethernet}{\*\bkmkend BMethernet} is the most widely-installed local area network (LAN) technology. Specified in a standard, IEEE 802.3, Ethernet was originally developed by Xerox and then developed further by Xerox, DEC, and Intel. An Ethernet LAN typically uses coaxial cable or special grades of twisted pair wires. The most commonly installed Ethernet systems are called 10BASE-T and provide transmission speeds up to 10 Mbps. Devices are connected to the cable and compete for access using a Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Detection (CSMA/CD) protocol. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li600\fi0 Fast Ethernet or 100BASE-T provides transmission speeds up to 100 megabits per second and is typically used for LAN backbone systems, supporting workstations with 10BASE-T cards. Gigabit Ethernet provides an even higher level of backbone support at 1000 megabits per second (1 gigabit or 1 billion bits per second). 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_18 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b TOKEN RING} {\*\bkmkstart BMtokenring}{\*\bkmkend BMtokenring} network is a local area network (LAN) in which all computers are connected in a ring or star topology and a binary digit - or token-passing scheme is used in order to prevent the collision of data between two computers that want to send messages at the same time. The token ring protocol is the second most widely-used protocol on local area networks after Ethernet . The IBM Token Ring protocol led to a standard version, specified as IEEE 802.5. Both protocols are used and are very similar. The IEEE 802.5 token ring technology provides for data transfer rates of either 4 or 16 megabits per second.\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b BONDING/TRUNKING} {\*\bkmkstart BMbonding}{\*\bkmkend BMbonding}\endash  This is called Etherchannel by Cisco, Sun Trunking by Sun, Port Trunking by D-Link, and Bonding in Linux. If you have two Ethernet connections to some other computer, you can make them behave like one to double the speed of the connection.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_20 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{19}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b TRAFFIC CONTROL} {\*\bkmkstart BMtfc}{\*\bkmkend BMtfc} provides administrators more control over who uses their bandwidth. Consider a Service Provider, who wishes to control which visitors to a web site are more important than others (free versus paying customers) and should get a relatively faster and better service. Before traffic control, this would have needed very expensive equipment. For example, depending on the set-up, it could be at the IP, TCP, and UDP etc i.e. control could be provided either by application (FTP gets less bandwidth than HTTP) or per IP address or ranges or a mixture of all these parameters.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b INTERNET PROTOCOL SECURITY} {\*\bkmkstart BMipsec}{\*\bkmkend BMipsec} (IPsec) is a developing standard for security at the network or packet processing layer of network communication.A big advantage of IPsec is that security arrangements can be handled without requiring changes to individual user computers.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b SIMULTANEOUS IPV4/IPV6 STACKS ON THE SAME NETWORK} {\*\bkmkstart BMipv4ipv6stack}{\*\bkmkend BMipv4ipv6stack} \endash  Allows the usage of IPv4 and IPv6 on the same network, allowing both protocols to be used by the server at the same time.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b IPV6 GATEWAY FACILITIES} {\*\bkmkstart BMipv6gateway}{\*\bkmkend BMipv6gateway} allows the routing of packets from IPv4 networks to IPv6 networks, and vice-versa.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b RSVP} {\*\bkmkstart BMrsvp}{\*\bkmkend BMrsvp} With RSVP, people who want to receive a particular Internet \ldblquote program\rdblquote  (think of a television program broadcast over the Internet) can reserve bandwidth through the Internet in advance of the program and be able to receive it at a higher data rate and in a more dependable data flow than usual.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b INTEGRATED SERVICES} {\*\bkmkstart BMintserv}{\*\bkmkend BMintserv} (INTSERV) defines how applications services describe their bandwidth and latency requirements, how this information can be made available to routers (typically via RSVP), and how the appropriate quality of service can be tested and validated. Unlike DiffServ (see below), IntServ routers must classify packets based on several IP packet header fields and maintain state information for each flow.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b DIFFERENTIATED SERVICES} {\*\bkmkstart BMdiffserv}{\*\bkmkend BMdiffserv}(DIFFSERV or DS) is a protocol for specifying and controlling network traffic by class so that certain types of traffic get precedence - for example, voice traffic, which requires a relatively uninterrupted flow of data, might get precedence over other kinds of traffic.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b IP MULTIPLEXING / \ldblquote ALIASING\rdblquote } {\*\bkmkstart BMaliasing}{\*\bkmkend BMaliasing} allows a single system to be seen as multiple numeric IP addresses, even on the same network-interface. Not to be confused with IP Multicasting.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b IP MULTICAST SERVER} {\*\bkmkstart BMipmulticast}{\*\bkmkend BMipmulticast} allows simultaneous transmition of IP packets to multiple hosts, which enables \ldblquote subscription\rdblquote messaging for audio, video, software, or data streams.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b TCP SELECTIVE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT} {\*\bkmkstart BMsack}{\*\bkmkend BMsack} (SACK) allows TCP to recover from multiple losses within transmission windows, providing superior performance in lossy networks, and traffic crossing multiple networks.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b ATM IP SWITCHING} {\*\bkmkstart BMatmipswitching}{\*\bkmkend BMatmipswitching} Provide the ability to run IP protocol over the ATM protocol.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b MULTILINK PPP} {\*\bkmkstart BMmultilinkppp}{\*\bkmkend BMmultilinkppp} allows two PPP (Point-to-Point protocol) to be used as one, to deliver double throughput.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b TCP LARGE WINDOWS} {\*\bkmkstart BMrfc1323}{\*\bkmkend BMrfc1323} (RFC 1323) allows the usage of windows that exceed the normal 64 KB limit to improve performance over high-bandwidth networks such as ATM or high-delay networks such as satellite links.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b TCP/IP GRATUITOUS ARP} {\*\bkmkstart BMrfc2002}{\*\bkmkend BMrfc2002} (RFC 2002) Notifies the members of the network that the server associated with an IP address has changed.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b PATH MTU DISCOVERY} {\*\bkmkstart BMrfc1191}{\*\bkmkend BMrfc1191} (RFC 1191) \endash  Router doesn\rquote t break up packets that are too-large.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b PATH MTU DISCOVERY OVER UDP} {\*\bkmkstart BMpathmtudiscoverudp}{\*\bkmkend BMpathmtudiscoverudp} allows use of Path MTU Discovery (see above) over Universal Data Packet (UDP) connections, rather than the typical Internet Protocol (IP).
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b OPEN SHORTEST PATH FIRST} {\*\bkmkstart BMrfc1533}{\*\bkmkend BMrfc1533} (OSPF \endash  RFC 1533) replaces the Routing Information Protocol with a better and faster routing. 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
]\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b IP MULTIPATH ROUTING} {\*\bkmkstart BMipmultipathrouting}{\*\bkmkend BMipmultipathrouting} allows applications to specify multiple paths to a destination on an IP network.
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
] \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMdelimination}2.6{\*\bkmkend BMdelimination}  DELIMINATION OF THE PROBLEM AREA\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 This study will compare the latest Linux kernel to the following operating systems:\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
AIX 5L version 5.1{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} AIX is copyrighted by IBM.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
True64 UNIX 5.1{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Tru64 UNIX is copyrighted by Compaq.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Solaris 8{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} Solaris is copyrighted by Sun Microsystems.}
 \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
HP-UX 11i{\cs62\super\chftn}
{\*\footnote\pard \s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20{\cs62\super\chftn} HP-UX is copyrighted by Hewlett Packard.}
 \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The latest release of each operating system will be used in the comparation. Some features that are not stated anywhere that they belong to the kernel are included, since other operating systems have implemented that function in the kernel, or that function is an essential operating system function according to an operating system reference book, like for example the reference book 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_15 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
] in the bibliography. The main functions function handled by the kernel are:\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
device \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
memory \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
filesystem \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 There are more kernel options in the Linux kernel then those mentioned in this thesis, but due to the lack of missing information if those functions are available or not on the other operating systems and if they are implemented in the kernel, they are not mentioned in this thesis. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 This is also true for some functions that the other operating systems have, but that couldn\rquote t be confirmed if they existed in the Linux kernel.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 This would lead to a incorrect and unfair analys of the functions in the kernels. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Chapter 3\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 METHOD\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb490 \fi0 3.1  CHOICE OF METHOD\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The information was empirical accumulate and kernel specific functions where sorted out from the rest of other functions. The kernel features where explained, with the help of a descriptive method and then compared to the Linux kernel using a comparative method.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 3.2  DESCRIPTION OF METHOD\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 This study compares five leading UNIX operating systems - IBM AIX 5L v5.1, Hewlett-Packard HP-UX 11i, Sun Solaris 8, Compaq Tru64 UNIX 5.1, and Linux 2.4.5 based on their functional capabilities implemented in the kernel as of May 27, 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 The information for this thesis was gathered from various sources. The main sources are books, articles, technical specifications, press releases, and technical representatives from the corresponding company (in the Linux case those representatives are available only through a mailing list called \ldblquote Linux kernel development list\rdblquote ).\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 A comparative method compares two or more things to each other and draws conclusions based on the result of the comparison. The following steps where taken in the creation of this thesis:\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 1.\tab
Search for technical papers on the Internet at various supplier\rquote s homepage, and by asking technical personal. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 2.\tab
Sort out features that are not in the kernel. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 3.\tab
Make a short description of each feature (See section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMimportanttheories \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5}}}). \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 4.\tab
Create tables with all kernel features and operating systems (see section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMresulttable \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5.1}}}). \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 5.\tab
Create a summary of features that Linux is lacking by looking at the tables. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 6.\tab
Write down the result (see section {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMresultanalys \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5.2}}}). \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 To arrive at a complete profile of an operating-system product, users should consider a number of factors in addition to those addressed by this thesis. They might be: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Application portfolio} An operating system is only useful as the amount of applications available for it. The suitability of an application portfolio for a given user depends on that user\rquote s specific requirements. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Quality} As the operating system is a technical product, it may be shipped with a number of defects, which are independent of its relative technical richness. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Vendor support} As a high-end system has many options/functions, operating systems introduce a high burden on request for support. The ability of vendors to meet those support requirements may vary. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Vendor experience} Vendors offering multiple operating systems may have different levels of experience within their respective product lines, depending on when they entered the market and with what level of commitment. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Skills availability} This factors applies both to the skills available within a user\rquote s organization and in the market as a whole. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Hardware/system capabilities} Since an operating system will only perform as well as its underlying hardware, users must remain aware of factors such as processor performance and the SMP ranges available on host platforms. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b Cost} This factor depends not only on operating-system software prices and associated client license fees, but also on any necessary add-on packages, the price and price/performance of underlying hardware, and a wide variety of hard-to-measure "soft costs" related to ongoing management and training. \par
}\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMrealization}4{\*\bkmkend BMrealization}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 REALIZATION\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 Most of the work has been done by reading various different documentation, asking technical support, and identifying if the mentioned functions were implemented in the kernel. The functions was then inserted into a table to finally get to a result. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMimplementation}4.1{\*\bkmkend BMimplementation}  IMPLEMENTATION\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The implementation of the missing functions are beyond the scope of this thesis. They are left to the developers of the Linux kernel.\par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Chapter 5\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 RESULT\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb490 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMresulttable}5.1{\*\bkmkend BMresulttable}  TABLES\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Cells with {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b empty} = The author could not verify if the operating system supports that function. The feature will be considered as missing due to the fact that looking for information about something that does not exist is almost impossible to find. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b \'95} = Operating system does support that function. See reference inside the brackets for more information. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 {\b -} = Operating system does not support the function or it is offer as an external program. See reference inside the brackets for more information \par
}\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMchange5}5.1.1{\*\bkmkend BMchange5}  TABLE WITH KERNEL SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS\par
{\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {\b Feature}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Linux}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Solaris}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b AIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Tru64 UNIX }}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b HP-UX}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Supported Architectures}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {i386, alpha, cris, sparc, sparc64, m68k, ppc, arm, sh4, s390, mips, HP parisc, ia64, DEC VAX and AMD x86\endash 64
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_24 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{67}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {sparc and i386 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ppc and ia64 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {alpha 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {parisc and ia64 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_33 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{12}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Maximum physical Memory tested and supported in {\b Gigabytes}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {64
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_41 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{71}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {128 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {96 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {256 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {256 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Maximum supported and tested size of file system in {\b Terabytes}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {4
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_38 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{34}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {16 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
}\par
{\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {\b Feature}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Linux}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Solaris}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b AIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Tru64 UNIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b HP-UX}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { SMP \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsmp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.2}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {64 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_37 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{33}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {128 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {24 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {32 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_26 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{25}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {64 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_50 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{14}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { NUMA \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMnuma \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.2}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_56 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{60}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_43 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{21}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_45 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{72}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_44 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{38}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_100 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{17}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Cryptographic hardware support}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_57 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{61}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Kernel threads \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMkernel_threads \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_24 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{67}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Hot\endash swap \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMhotswap \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_31 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{31}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_33 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{12}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { SysV IPC \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipc \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_52 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{56}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Dynamic Processor Resilience \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdynprocres \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Dynamic Memory Resilience \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdynmemres \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_11 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{36}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Dynamic Page Sizing \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdynpagesize \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Live Upgrade \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMliveupg \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_60 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{11}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Alternative I/O Pathing \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMaltiopath \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { BSD Process Accounting  {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMprocacc \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_54 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{58}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMchange1}5.1.2{\*\bkmkend BMchange1}  TABLE WITH FILE SYSTEM SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS\par
{\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {\b Feature}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Linux}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Solaris}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b AIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Tru64 UNIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b HP-UX}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Maximum tested and supported file size in {\b Terabytes}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2 GB 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_38 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{34}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {1 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {64 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {10 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_26 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{25}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {2 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { ACL \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMacl \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_38 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{34}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_42 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{20}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_68 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{76}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_51 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{44}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { RAID \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMraid \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\} support}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_31 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{31}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_33 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{12}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Journaling File System \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMjfs \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_54 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{58}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{77}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Logical Volume Manager \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMlvm \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_59 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{62}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_113 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{52}}}
] {\*\bkmkstart BMchange4}{\*\bkmkend BMchange4}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { HSM \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMhsm \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_7 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_61 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{15}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Memory File System \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMmfs \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_55 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{59}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_101 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{39}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { CacheFS \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMcachefs \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_23 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{37}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { AutoFS \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMautofs \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.4}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_54 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{58}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
}\par
{\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {\b Feature}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Linux}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Solaris}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b AIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Tru64 UNIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b HP-UX}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Supported file systems}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {ISO9660, Rockridge, Ext2, VFAT, FATCVF, UFS, FFS, HPFS, NTFS, AFFS,ADFS, BFS, CRAMFS, PROC, ROMFS, SYSV\endash FS, UDF, UMDOS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_24 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{67}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {DFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
] UDF, UFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_25 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{22}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {DFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {CFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
], XCDR, DVDFS,
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_10 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
], FFM , DFS, EFS, FDFS, PROCFS, SYSV, UFS, MFS, ISO9660 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_101 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{39}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {UFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_33 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{12}}}
] CIFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_29 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{10}}}
], CDFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_106 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{48}}}
], HFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_107 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{50}}}
], LOFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_108 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{51}}}
], DOS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_109 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{54}}}
], ISO9660, Rockridge, High Sierra, 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_110 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{55}}}
] CDFS 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_112 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{53}}}
] {\*\bkmkstart BMchange2}{\*\bkmkend BMchange2}}\cell}
\row}
}\par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMchange3}5.1.3{\*\bkmkend BMchange3}  TABLE WITH NETWORK SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS\par
{\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {\b Feature}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Linux}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Solaris}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b AIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Tru64 UNIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b HP-UX}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Support for IP v4 and v6 {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipv6 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_103 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{41}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_62 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{16}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Traffic Control \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMtfc \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_29 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{10}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Bonding \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMbonding \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {NFS\~v2}\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMnfs \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.3}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_101 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{39}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_111 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{49}}}
] }\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {NFS\~v3}\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMnfs \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.3}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_101 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{39}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_101 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{39}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_111 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{49}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { SNMP \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsnmp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_64 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{45}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { SMB \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsmb \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.3}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { AppleTalk \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMappletalk \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.3}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_63 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{80}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { NetWare \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMnetware \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.3}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_67 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{81}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { DECnet \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdecnet \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_9 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_104 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{42}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_65 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{46}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { ARCnet \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMarcnet \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_66 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{47}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { ATM \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMatm \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_46 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{13}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { FDDI \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMfddi \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_46 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{13}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Ethernet \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMethernet \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_46 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{13}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Token Ring \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMtokenring \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_25 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{22}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_40 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{74}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_105 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{43}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_46 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{13}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { IPSEc \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipsec \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_48 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{79}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Simultaneous IPv4/IPv6 stacks on the same network \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipv4ipv6stack \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { IPv6 Gateway facilities \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipv6gateway \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { RSVP \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrsvp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_54 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{58}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Integrated Services(IntServ) \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMintserv \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
}\par
{\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrt\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {\b Feature}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Linux}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Solaris}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b AIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b Tru64 UNIX}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {{\b HP-UX}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Differentiated Services \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMdiffserv \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { IP Multiplexing / \ldblquote aliasing\rdblquote  \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMaliasing \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {IP\~Multicast}\~Server\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipmulticast \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_39 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{35}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { TCP selective acknowledgement (SACK) \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMsack \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { ATM IP switching \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMatmipswitching \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { Multilink PPP \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMmultilinkppp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\endash  
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { TCP Large Windows (RFC 1323) \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrfc1323 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_53 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{57}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { TCP/IP Gratuitous ARP (RFC 2002) \{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrfc2002 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {Path\~MTU}\~Discovery\~(RFC\~1191)\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrfc1191 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {Path\~MTU}\~Discovery\~over\~UDP\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMpathmtudiscoverudp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {Open\~Shortest}\~{Path\~First}\~({OSPF\endash RFC}\~1533)\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMrfc1533 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_21 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx1300\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx2600\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx3900\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx5200\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx6500\clbrdrl\brdrs\clbrdrb\brdrs\clbrdrr\brdrs\cellx7800
{\pard\intbl\ql { {IP\~Multipath}\~Routing\~\{{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMipmultipathrouting \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.5.5}}}\}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.1}}}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\ql {\'95
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_13 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]}\cell}
\row}
}\par
\column
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMresultanalys}5.2{\*\bkmkend BMresultanalys}  RESULT ANALYSIS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Linux has support for a more kinds of file systems and architectures than any other operating system in this thesis. But it lacks high-availability and security features\u160?(like Live upgrade, dynamic memory/processor resilience, HSM, ACL, IPSec...).\par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Chapter 6\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 DISCUSSION\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 The reader maybe is asking why this thesis just looks at the features of the kernel?  The explanation is that one can tell much about an operating system by just looking at the kernel, for example how well developed it is.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 There was some difficulties in finding information from the suppliers documentation that confirmed which functions where implemented in the kernel. To overcome this difficulty, some technicians from the various companies were asked. Another difficult task was finding information about features that was not implemented in the operating system. Partial because vendors don\rquote t announce the features their operating system is missing in comparation to other.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Most of the missing features in Linux do already exist for Linux as patches, but they are not yet implemented in the official kernel. For example IPSec (see reference 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_48 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{79}}}
]), Dynamic Memory Resilience (see appendix {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa8 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.8}}}), live update (see appendix {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMa2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{A.2}}})...\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Now that Linux is getting a greater deal of press, as is the interest for it to in the enterprise market. Here are some quotes from different magazines. The September 1998 Software Magazine cover story
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_36 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{70}}}
] reveals just how far Linux has managed to infiltrate corporate America and how it is not about to go away: {\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li512\ri512\fi300 \ldblquote Tim Payne, director of database marketing at Oracle, says many of his company\rquote s corporate customers have made large investments in Linux. When Oracle announced in July that it would be offering 24x7 support for Oracle8 on Linux, he says 300 customers called the next day asking about availability. \rquote It\rquote s reliable, it\rquote s proven, it runs on commodity Intel boxes, and it\rquote s a really low-cost alternative to NT,\rquote  says Payne. \rquote The fact that you are going to be able to get enterprise quality support from Oracle to deploy on the Linux platform will help customers adopt Linux.\rdblquote  \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Nicholas Petreley, editor-in-chief of NC World and columnist for InfoWorld and NT World Japan provides an explanation for the rise of Linux and FreeBSD in IT departments 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_35 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{69}}}
]: \par
{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li512\ri512\fi300 \ldblquote Yesterday\rquote s college students learned their UNIX expertise on Linux and FreeBSD. Today they\rquote re working in IT departments, and many of them are openly hostile to both Microsoft and Windows NT. As a result, Linux, BSD, Solaris, and other forms of UNIX are finding their way into IT departments, both overtly and on the sly.\rdblquote  \par
}{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li512\ri512\fi300 \ldblquote For example, are you sure that\rquote s an NT server you\rquote re connecting to at work?  IS employees in many corporations have secretly installed UNIX servers that provide native NT services. Why take such a risk?  Linux and FreeBSD are free, as is SAMBA, the software that provides NT services. So the IS department saves money. And managers are unlikely to find out UNIX is behind the scenes because fewer people will complain about server downtime.\rdblquote  \par
}{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li512\ri512\fi300 \ldblquote Fewer people will complain because the servers are more stable than Windows NT. Linux, FreeBSD, and BSDI UNIX outperform Windows NT by a wide margin on limited hardware, and under some circumstances can perform as well or better than NT on the best hardware. Once behind in scalability features, UNIX on Intel is catching up and may soon surpass NT in the number of processors it can use, and how it uses them.\rdblquote  \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Now that Linux has infiltrated the enterprise market, and the demand for the usage of Linux on enterprise market is increasing, the development of features to Linux that the enterprises are looking for on more expensive alternatives will increase. Specially with the increase of support Linux is getting from the main players on the enterprise market like Compaq, IBM, Hewlett\endash Packard...\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 6.1  METHOD EVALUATION\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The chosen methods where the most appropriate for each task of the report.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 6.2  RECEIVED RESULTS VERSUS EXPECTED RESULT\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 The received result shows that on contrary to the expected result that Linux is not yet ready to take over the enterprise market, due to the lack of features that the enterprise market expect to see on a high\endash end system.\par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMconclusions}7{\*\bkmkend BMconclusions}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 CONCLUSIONS\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 For Linux to get into the enterprise server market it has to include support for more memory, high-availability and security features, to make it more competitive against the other operating systems. Linux lacks the following features: {\par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Dynamic processor/memory resilience. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Dynamic page sizing. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Live upgrade. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
ACL \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Hierarchical storage management. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
CacheFS \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
IPSec \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 It could not be verified in this thesis if Linux has more features than any other of the compared operating systems due to the lack of information. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 7.1  PROPOSAL FOR FURTHER RESEARCH\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Available programs.. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Make a survey on companies asking them what hardware support or features they want to see implemented in Linux. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Available support. \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Cost versus performance. \par
}\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Chapter {\*\bkmkstart BMbiblio}8{\*\bkmkend BMbiblio}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 Bibliography\par
{\page
\pard\plain\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb370 \fi0 {\plain\b\fs32 Bibliography}\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb190 \li450\fi0 Books\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_1}1{\*\bkmkend BIB_1}]\tab
Matt Welsh and Phil Hughes and David Bandel and Boris Beletsky and Sean Dreilinger and Robert Kiesling and Evan Liebovitch and Henry Pierce, {\i Linux installation and getting started}, Specialized Systems Consultants Inc, Seattle, {\f2 http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/docs/LDP/install-guide/!INDEX.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 19), 1998.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_6}2{\*\bkmkend BIB_6}]\tab
VI Peter H. Salus, {\i A Quarter Century of UNIX}, Addison-Wesley Publishing Company Inc, ISBN: 0-201-54777-5, 1994.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_15}3{\*\bkmkend BIB_15}]\tab
Peter Galvin and Avi Silberschatz, {\i Operating system concepts, 5th edition}, ISBN 0-471-36414-2, John Wiley and Sons Inc., 605 Third Avenue, New York, 1999.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_18}4{\*\bkmkend BIB_18}]\tab
Andrew S. Tanebaum, {\i Computer Networks, 3rd edition}, ISBN 0-13-394248-1, Prentice-Hall International, Inc., Upper Saddle River, New Jersey 07458, 1996.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_30}5{\*\bkmkend BIB_30}]\tab
Valentino Berti, {\i Datakommunikation}, Liber AB, 113 98 Stockholm, ISBN 91-47-03564-1, 1999.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li450\fi0 White Papers\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_21}6{\*\bkmkend BIB_21}]\tab
Bert Hubert and Gregory Maxwell and Remco van Mook and Martijn van Oosterhout and Paul B Schroeder and Jasper Spaans, {\i Linux 2.4 Advanced Routing HOWTO}, {\f2 http://www.ds9a.nl/2.4Networking/HOWTO//cvs/2.4routing/output/2.4routing.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 23), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_7}7{\*\bkmkend BIB_7}]\tab
{\i AIX 5L Technical Preview, AIX Product Marketing}, IBM corporation, {\f2 http://www-1.ibm.com/servers/aix/pdf/AIX50dr3ms.pdf} (available on 17:th of May 2001), 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_34}8{\*\bkmkend BIB_34}]\tab
{\i AIX\endash  Announcement Supplemental Information}, IBM, 2001\endash 04\endash 17.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_8}9{\*\bkmkend BIB_8}]\tab
{\i HP Renews Focus on UNIX for Web Application Infrastructures}, D.H. Brown Associates Inc. 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_29}10{\*\bkmkend BIB_29}]\tab
{\i HP 9000 \endash  A-Class Servers: A500/A400 System Architecture and Design Guide}, Hewlett-Packard, 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_60}11{\*\bkmkend BIB_60}]\tab
{\i Updating to HP-UX 11i}, Hewlett\endash Packard, {\f2 http://docs.hp.com/cgi-bin/onlinedocs.py?mpn=B2355-90703&service=hpux&path=../B2355-90703/00/00/19&title=HP-UX%2011i%20Installation%20and%20Update%20Guide}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_33}12{\*\bkmkend BIB_33}]\tab
{\i HP\endash UX reference documents}, Hewlett\endash Packard,{\f2 http://devresource.hp.com/STK/toc_ref_details.html} (available 2001-05-24), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_46}13{\*\bkmkend BIB_46}]\tab
{\i HP-UX 11i Operating Environments}, Hewlett\endash Packard, {\f2 http://docs.hp.com/hpux/onlinedocs/os/11i/oe_presentation_Dec1_external.pdf} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 25), 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_50}14{\*\bkmkend BIB_50}]\tab
{\i hp 9000 superdome specifications}, Hewlett\endash Packard, {\f2 http://www.hp.com/products1/unixservers/highend/superdome/specifications.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 27).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_61}15{\*\bkmkend BIB_61}]\tab
{\i Onlinejsf product details and specifications}, Hewlett\endash Packard,{\f2 http://www.software.hp.com/cgi-bin/swdepot_parser.cgi/cgi/displayProductInfo.pl?productNumber=B3929CA} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 27).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_62}16{\*\bkmkend BIB_62}]\tab
{\i IPv6 early release overview}, Hewlett\endash Packard,{\f2 http://www.software.hp.com/cgi-bin/swdepot_parser.cgi/cgi/displayProductInfo.pl?productNumber=T1305AA} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 27).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_100}17{\*\bkmkend BIB_100}]\tab
{\i HP MPI User\rquote s guide \endash  Message latency and bandwidth}, Hewlett\endash Packard, {\f2 http://docs.hp.com/cgi-bin/fsearch/framedisplay?top=/hpux/onlinedocs/B6060-96002/B6060-96002_top.html&con=/hpux/onlinedocs/B6060-96002/00/00/25-con.html&toc=/hpux/onlinedocs/B6060-96002/00/00/25-toc.html&searchterms=numa&queryid=20010528-032930} {available 2001\endash 05\endash 28}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_9}18{\*\bkmkend BIB_9}]\tab
{\i Solaris 8 press release}, Sun Microsystems Inc, {\f2 http://www.sun.com/smi/Press/sunflash/2000-01/sunflash.20000126.2.html} (avaible 2001-05-19), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_20}19{\*\bkmkend BIB_20}]\tab
{\i Sun trunking overview}, Sun Micro\endash systems, {\f2 http://www.sun.com/products-n-solutions/hw/networking/connectivity/suntrunking/trunking.html}.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_42}20{\*\bkmkend BIB_42}]\tab
{\i Trusted Solaris 8 Operating Environment \endash  A Technical Overview}, White Paper, Sun Microsystems Inc, {\f2 http://www.sun.com/software/white-papers/wp-ts8/} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 25).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_43}21{\*\bkmkend BIB_43}]\tab
{\i Sun Enterprise 10000 Key Technologies}, Sun Microsystems Inc, {\f2 http://www.sun.com/servers/highend/10000/tech.html} (available (2001\endash 05\endash 25).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_25}22{\*\bkmkend BIB_25}]\tab
{\i What\rquote s new in the Solaris 8 Operating Environment}, Sun Microsystems, January 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_19}23{\*\bkmkend BIB_19}]\tab
{\i Tru64 UNIX Operating System Version 5.1 Product Description}, Internal reference: SPD 70.70.03, Compaq Computer Corporation, 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_10}24{\*\bkmkend BIB_10}]\tab
{\i Tru64 UNIX Product overview}, Compaq, {\f2 http://www.tru64unix.compaq.com/unix/index.html} (available online on 2001-05-18), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_26}25{\*\bkmkend BIB_26}]\tab
{\i  True64 UNIX on AlphaServer Product Overview}, Compaq Computer Corporation, {\f2 http://www.tru64unix.compaq.com/unix/v5.htm} (available 2001-05-19), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_13}26{\*\bkmkend BIB_13}]\tab
{\i 2001 UNIX function review}, D.H Brown Associates, Inc, 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_14}27{\*\bkmkend BIB_14}]\tab
R. P. LaRowe Jr. and J. T. Wilkes and C. S. Ellis, {\i Exploiting operating system support for dynamic page placement on a NUMA shared memory multiprocessor}, Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles & Practice of Parallel Programming, SIGPLAN Notices volume 26 number 7 page 122-132, {\f2 http://citeseer.nj.nec.com/larowe91exploiting.html}, April 1991\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_16}28{\*\bkmkend BIB_16}]\tab
Adam Sweeney and Doug Doucette and Wei Hu and Curtis Anderson and Mike Nishimoto and Geoff Peck, {\i Scalability in the XFS File System}, Silicon Graphics, {\f2 http://linux-xfs.sgi.com/projects/xfs/papers/xfs_usenix/index.html}, 1996\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_17}29{\*\bkmkend BIB_17}]\tab
Heinz Mauelshagen, {\i Mauelshagen\rquote s LVM (Logical Volume Manager) howto}, Linux source documentation, 1999\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_22}30{\*\bkmkend BIB_22}]\tab
Johannes Erdfelt, {\i Hot-Swap white paper}, {\f2 http://johannes.erdfelt.com/hotswap.txt}, 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_31}31{\*\bkmkend BIB_31}]\tab
Jakob \u216?stergaard, {\i The Software\endash RAID HOWTO}, {\f2 http://www.linuxdoc.org/HOWTO/Software-RAID-HOWTO.html} (available 2001-05-22), 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_32}32{\*\bkmkend BIB_32}]\tab
Scott Norton and Mark DiPasquale, {\i Thread Time - The Multithreaded Programming Guide}, Prentice Hall, ISBN 0-13-190067-6, 1996.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_37}33{\*\bkmkend BIB_37}]\tab
David Mentr\u233?,{\i Linux SMP HOWTO}, Linux documentation project,{\f2 http://www.linuxdoc.org/HOWTO/SMP-HOWTO.html}, October 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_38}34{\*\bkmkend BIB_38}]\tab
R\u233?my Card and Theodore Ts\rquote o and Stephen Tweedie,{\i Design and implementation of Second Extended Filesystem}, Proceedings of the Firts Dutch International Symposium, ISBN 90-367-0385-9, {\f2 http://e2fsprogs.sourceforge.net/ext2intro.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 24).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_39}35{\*\bkmkend BIB_39}]\tab
Joshua Drake, {\i Linux Networking HOWTO}, {\f2 http://www.linuxports.com/howto/networking/} (available 2001-05-24), 2000. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_11}36{\*\bkmkend BIB_11}]\tab
Harald Milz, {\i Linux High Availability HOWTO}, {\f2 http://www.ibiblio.org/pub/Linux/ALPHA/linux-ha/High-Availability-HOWTO.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 25), 1998\endash 12\endash 22.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_23}37{\*\bkmkend BIB_23}]\tab
Stein Gjoen, {\i Multi Disk System Tuning HOWTO},{\f2 http://www.linuxdoc.org/HOWTO/Multi-Disk-HOWTO.html} (available 2001-05\endash 26), 2000-07\endash 24.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_44}38{\*\bkmkend BIB_44}]\tab
{\i Visual Threads Documentation}, Compaq Inc, {\f2 http://www.compaq.com/products/software/visualthreads/documentation.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 25).\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li450\fi0 Source documentation and man pages\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_101}39{\*\bkmkend BIB_101}]\tab
See Solaris 8 man page for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_nfs} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_102}40{\*\bkmkend BIB_102}]\tab
See Tru64 UNIX man page for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount} (8). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_103}41{\*\bkmkend BIB_103}]\tab
See Tru64 UNIX man page for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 inet} (7). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_104}42{\*\bkmkend BIB_104}]\tab
See Tru64 UNIX man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 X} (7). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_105}43{\*\bkmkend BIB_105}]\tab
See Tru64 UNIX man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 network_manual_setup} (7). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_51}44{\*\bkmkend BIB_51}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 acl} (2). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_64}45{\*\bkmkend BIB_64}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 snmpd} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_65}46{\*\bkmkend BIB_65}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 X} (7). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_66}47{\*\bkmkend BIB_66}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 bootpd}. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_106}48{\*\bkmkend BIB_106}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_cdfs} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_111}49{\*\bkmkend BIB_111}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_nfs} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_107}50{\*\bkmkend BIB_107}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_hfs} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_108}51{\*\bkmkend BIB_108}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_lofs} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_113}52{\*\bkmkend BIB_113}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_lvm} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_112}53{\*\bkmkend BIB_112}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 mount_cdfs} (1M). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_109}54{\*\bkmkend BIB_109}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 dosif} (4). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_110}55{\*\bkmkend BIB_110}]\tab
See HP-UX 11i man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 pfs} (4). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_52}56{\*\bkmkend BIB_52}]\tab
See Linux man pages for {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 ipc} (5). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_53}57{\*\bkmkend BIB_53}]\tab
See kernel source document {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 linux/Documentation/network/ip-sysctl.txt}. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_54}58{\*\bkmkend BIB_54}]\tab
See kernel source document {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 linux/Documentation/Configure.help}. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_55}59{\*\bkmkend BIB_55}]\tab
See kernel source document {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 linux/Documentation/ramdisk.txt}. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_56}60{\*\bkmkend BIB_56}]\tab
See kernel source document {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 linux/Documentation/vm/numa.html}. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_57}61{\*\bkmkend BIB_57}]\tab
See kernel source document {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 linux/Documentation/devices.txt}. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_59}62{\*\bkmkend BIB_59}]\tab
See kernel source document {\b0\i0\scaps0\f3 linux/Documentation/LVM-HOWTO.htm}.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li450\fi0 Articles from the press (bold urls now! )\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_2}63{\*\bkmkend BIB_2}]\tab
Richard Shim, {\i Linux makes a move into handhelds}, C\endash Net, {\f0 \b http://news.cnet.com/news/0-1006-200-5827919.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 19), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_4}64{\*\bkmkend BIB_4}]\tab
Mats L\u246?vgren, {\i Linux sparkar ut NT och UNIX fr\u229?n bank}, Computer Sweden, {\f0 \b http://nyheter.idg.se/display.asp?ID=010504-CS31}, 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_5}65{\*\bkmkend BIB_5}]\tab
Jon Tillman, {\i The New Linux Myth Dispeller}, {\f0 \b http://www.eruditum.org/linux/myths/myth-dispeller.html}, 2000.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_12}66{\*\bkmkend BIB_12}]\tab
Mary Jo Foley, {\i At long last Linux 2.4 has arrived}, ZDNet news, {\f0 \b http://www.zdnet.com/zdnn/stories/news/0,4586,2671106,00.html} (available 2001-05-19), January 5 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_24}67{\*\bkmkend BIB_24}]\tab
Robert Kiesling, {\i Linux FAQ, Revision 1.4}, {\f0 \b http://www.linuxdoc.org/FAQ/Linux-FAQ/index.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 21), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_27}68{\*\bkmkend BIB_27}]\tab
Mary Jo Foley, {\i Linus: Partying hard over Linux 2.4}, ZDNet news, {\f0 \b http://www.zdnet.com/zdnn/stories/news/0,4586,2671714,00.html} (available 2001-05-19), January 5 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_35}69{\*\bkmkend BIB_35}]\tab
Nicholas Petreley,{\i The new UNIX alters NT\rquote s orbit: The re-emergence of UNIX threatens to modify the future direction of NT}, NC World, April 1998. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_36}70{\*\bkmkend BIB_36}]\tab
Ann Harrison,{\i In LINUX We\u8230?}, Software Magazine, Cover Story, September 1998. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_41}71{\*\bkmkend BIB_41}]\tab
Henry Baltazar. {\i Operating System - Linux 2.4 Kernel}, ZDNet UK, {\f0 \b http://www.zdnet.co.uk/reviews/rstories/0,3040,e7108096,00.html}, 27 January 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_45}72{\*\bkmkend BIB_45}]\tab
Jaikumar Vijayan, {\i High-end Systems Vendors offer performance programs}, ComputerWorld, 1999\endash 22\endash 11.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_58}73{\*\bkmkend BIB_58}]\tab
Press release, {\i Veritas delivers hsm version 3.1 to bring improved data availability to enterprise applications}, {\f0 \b http://www.veritas.com/us/aboutus/pressroom/1998/98-08-18-0.html} (available 2001\endash 05-21), 1998.\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li450\fi0 8.0.0.1  Technical persons/resources\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_40}74{\*\bkmkend BIB_40}]\tab
Jan Strage, IT Architect, IBM Sweden. \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_49}75{\*\bkmkend BIB_49}]\tab
{\i Linux kernel development list}, {\f0 \b http://vger.kernel.org} or {\f0 \b http://www.tux.org/lkml/#s3-4} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 27).\par
\pard\plain\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24\sl240\slmult1 \sb130 \li450\fi0 8.0.0.2  Websites\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_68}76{\*\bkmkend BIB_68}]\tab
Heimo Haub, {\i Aspects of Access Management in Heterogeneous Distributed Object Systems},Graz University of Technology, {\f0 \b http://www.dinopolis.org/documentation/misc/theses/hhaub/node60.html}\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_3}77{\*\bkmkend BIB_3}]\tab
Harald Alvestrand, {\i The Linux Counter Project}, The Linux Counter Project, {\f0 \b http://counter.li.org/} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 21), 2001.\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_28}78{\*\bkmkend BIB_28}]\tab
Transaction Processing Performance Council, {\f0 \b http://www.tpc.org} (available 2001-05-21).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_48}79{\*\bkmkend BIB_48}]\tab
FreeSwan homepage,{\f0 \b http://www.freeswan.org/} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 25). \par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_63}80{\*\bkmkend BIB_63}]\tab
Columbia Appletalk, {\f0 \b http://www.cs.mu.oz.au/appletalk/cap.html} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 27).\par
\pard\plain\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb10 \li450\fi0 [{\v\*\bkmkstart BIB_67}81{\*\bkmkend BIB_67}]\tab
Novell, {\f0 \b http://www.novell.com/} (available 2001\endash 05\endash 27). \par
}\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Appendix {\*\bkmkstart BMkernlist}A{\*\bkmkend BMkernlist}\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 MESSAGE REPLIES FROM THE KERNEL DEVELOPMEN LIST\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 Here are the letter I\rquote ve got from the developers of the kernel, that where posted on the \ldblquote Linux kernel development list\rdblquote . Please see reference 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_49 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{75}}}
] for more information.\par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb250 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa1}A.1{\*\bkmkend BMa1}  Jeff Garzik 26 May 2001 22:27:09\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 Date: Sat, 26 May 2001 22:27:09 -0400
\par         From: Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com>
\par Organization:MandrakeSoft
\par           To: cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com
\par           Cc:linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par   Subject:Re: Please help me fill in the blank
\par 
\par Cesar Da Silva wrote:
\par > The features that I'm wondering about are:
\par > * Dynamic Processor Resilience
\par 
\par is this fault tolerance?  I think if a CPU croaks, you are dead.
\par 
\par There are patches for hot swap cpu support, but I haven't seen any CPU
\par fault tolerance patches that can handle a dead processor
\par 
\par > * Dynamic Memory Resilience
\par 
\par RAM fault tolerance?  There was a patch a long time ago which detected
\par bad ram, and would mark those memory clusters as unuseable at boot.
\par However that is clearly not dynamic.
\par 
\par If your memory croaks, your kernel will experience random corruptions
\par 
\par > * Dynamic Page Sizing
\par 
\par no
\par 
\par > * Live Upgrade
\par 
\par LOBOS will let one Linux kernel boot another,but that requires a boot
\par step, so it is not a live upgrade.  so, no, afaik
\par 
\par > * Alternative I/O Pathing
\par 
\par be less vague
\par 
\par > * HSM
\par 
\par patches exist, I believe
\par 
\par > * TCP selective acknowledgement (SACK)
\par 
\par yes
\par 
\par > * Service Location Protocol (SLP)
\par 
\par don't know
\par 
\par > * ATM IP switching
\par 
\par yes, I believe
\par 
\par > * SOCKS 5 support
\par 
\par yes, via userspace apps/libs
\par 
\par > * Multilink PPP
\par 
\par yes
\par 
\par > * TCP/IP Gratuitous ARP (RFC 2002)
\par 
\par not sure
\par 
\par > * Path MTU Discovery (RFC 1191)
\par 
\par yes
\par 
\par > * Path MTU Discovery over UDP
\par 
\par not sure, but I think so
\par 
\par > * IP Multipath Routing
\par 
\par yes
\par 
\par > The questions I have about the features above are:
\par > * Are any of the above features implemented in the
\par > kernel? If yes, where can I read (url-link  to the
\par > article, paper... please) about it?
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa2}A.2{\*\bkmkend BMa2}  Jonathan Morton 27 May 2001\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par   Datum:Sun, 27 May 2001 03:50:28 +0100
\par      To:jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com, cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com
\par    From:Jonathan Morton <chromi@cyberspace.org>
\par Subject:Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par      Cc:linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par 
\par >> * Live Upgrade
\par >
\par >LOBOS will let one Linux kernel boot another, but that requires a boot
\par >step, so it is not a live upgrade.  so, no, afaik
\par 
\par If you build nearly everything (except, obviously what you need to boot) as
\par modules, you can unload modules, build new versions, and reload them.  So,
\par you could say that partial support for "live upgrades" is included.
\par 
\par It works, too - I unloaded my OV511 driver a few weeks ago, copied the
\par source for the new one in, built it, and re-inserted it.  Same goes for the
\par DRM module a couple of weeks before that.  Now, the machine in question
\par gets rebooted fairly often in any case, but those were things I *didn't*
\par have to reboot for.
\par 
\par --------------------------------------------------------------
\par from:     Jonathan "Chromatix" Morton
\par mail:     chromi@cyberspace.org  (not for attachments)
\par big-mail: chromatix@penguinpowered.com
\par uni-mail: j.d.morton@lancaster.ac.uk
\par 
\par The key to knowledge is not to rely on people to teach you it.
\par 
\par Get VNC Server for Macintosh from http://www.chromatix.uklinux.net/vnc/
\par 
\par -----BEGIN GEEK CODE BLOCK-----
\par Version 3.12
\par GCS$/E/S dpu(!) s:- a20 C+++ UL++ P L+++ E W+ N- o? K? w--- O-- M++$ V? PS
\par PE- Y+ PGP++ t- 5- X- R !tv b++ DI+++ D G e+ h+ r++ y+(*)
\par -----END GEEK CODE BLOCK-----
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa3}A.3{\*\bkmkend BMa3}  Jeff Garzik 26 May 2001 22:55:04\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par         Date: Sat, 26 May 2001 22:55:04 -0400
\par         From: Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com>
\par Organization: MandrakeSoft
\par           To: chromi@cyberspace.org
\par           Cc: cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com, linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par         \u196?mne: Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par Jonathan Morton wrote:
\par > 
\par > >> * Live Upgrade
\par > >
\par > >LOBOS will let one Linux kernel boot another, but that requires a 
\par boot
\par > >step, so it is not a live upgrade.  so, no, afaik
\par > 
\par > If you build nearly everything (except, obviously what you need to 
\par boot) as
\par > modules, you can unload modules, build new versions, and reload them.  
\par So,
\par > you could say that partial support for "live upgrades" is included.
\par 
\par I stand corrected, though I clearly know better:
\par Modules are unloaded/reloaded all the time during my driver development
\par :)
\par 
\par -- 
\par Jeff Garzik      | Disbelief, that's why you fail.
\par Building 1024    |
\par MandrakeSoft     |
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa4}A.4{\*\bkmkend BMa4}  Dan Hollis 26 May 2001\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par Date: Sat, 26 May 2001 21:25:28 -0700 (PDT)
\par    From: Dan Hollis <goemon@anime.net>
\par     To: thunderlight1@yahoo.com
\par   Subject: Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par On Sun, 27 May 2001, Cesar Da Silva wrote:
\par > * Live Upgrade
\par 
\par implemented
\par 
\par > * TCP selective acknowledgement (SACK)
\par 
\par implemented
\par 
\par > * SOCKS 5 support
\par 
\par implemented
\par 
\par > * Multilink PPP
\par 
\par implemented
\par 
\par > * Path MTU Discovery (RFC 1191)
\par 
\par implemented
\par 
\par > * IP Multipath Routing
\par 
\par implemented
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa5}A.5{\*\bkmkend BMa5}  James Sutherland 27 May 2001\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par    Date: Sun, 27 May 2001 09:17:15 +0100 (BST)
\par    From: James Sutherland <jas88@cam.ac.uk>
\par      To: jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com
\par      Cc: cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com, linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par Subject: Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par On Sat, 26 May 2001, Jeff Garzik wrote:
\par 
\par > Cesar Da Silva wrote:
\par > > The features that I'm wondering about are:
\par > > * Dynamic Processor Resilience
\par >
\par > is this fault tolerance?  I think if a CPU croaks, you are dead.
\par >
\par > There are patches for hot swap cpu support, but I haven't seen any 
\par CPU
\par > fault tolerance patches that can handle a dead processor
\par 
\par The S/390 has this; presumably it applies to Linux as well as the other
\par supported OSs?
\par 
\par > > * Dynamic Memory Resilience
\par >
\par > RAM fault tolerance?  There was a patch a long time ago which 
\par detected
\par > bad ram, and would mark those memory clusters as unuseable at boot.
\par > However that is clearly not dynamic.
\par >
\par > If your memory croaks, your kernel will experience random corruptions
\par 
\par ECC can be supported by the hardware; no support for mapping out duff
\par banks on x86, but again S/390 may differ?
\par 
\par > > * Live Upgrade
\par >
\par > LOBOS will let one Linux kernel boot another, but that requires a 
\par boot
\par > step, so it is not a live upgrade.  so, no, afaik
\par 
\par Live SOFTWARE upgrade, or live HARDWARE upgrade? If the latter, things
\par like hotswap PCI, USB... and again the S/390?
\par 
\par > > * Service Location Protocol (SLP)
\par >
\par > don't know
\par 
\par Yes, I think so - mars_nwe surely needs this?
\par 
\par > > * TCP/IP Gratuitous ARP (RFC 2002)
\par >
\par > not sure
\par 
\par Isn't that how LVS clusters handle IP takeovers?
\par 
\par > > * Path MTU Discovery (RFC 1191)
\par >
\par > yes
\par 
\par With one or two RFC violations, yes.
\par 
\par Basically, most of those features relating to hardware resilience 
\par should
\par be usable with Linux on an S/390 - they are hardware features, though,
\par AFAICS?
\par 
\par 
\par James.
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa6}A.6{\*\bkmkend BMa6}  Ingo Oeser 27 May 2001\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par    Date: Sun, 27 May 2001 10:27:07 +0200
\par    From: Ingo Oeser <ingo.oeser@informatik.tu-chemnitz.de>
\par      To: jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com
\par      Cc: cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com, linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par Subject: Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par On Sat, May 26, 2001 at 10:27:09PM -0400, Jeff Garzik wrote:
\par > > * Service Location Protocol (SLP)
\par 
\par www.openslp.org
\par 
\par Regards
\par 
\par Ingo Oeser
\par -- 
\par To the systems programmer,
\par users and applications serve only to provide a test load.
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa7}A.7{\*\bkmkend BMa7}  Dominik Kubla 27 May 2001\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par    Date: Sun, 27 May 2001 10:57:10 +0200
\par    From: Dominik Kubla <dominik.kubla@uni-mainz.de>
\par      To: jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com
\par      Cc: cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com, linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par Subject: Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par On Sat, May 26, 2001 at 10:27:09PM -0400, Jeff Garzik wrote:
\par > 
\par > > * Service Location Protocol (SLP)
\par > 
\par > don't know
\par 
\par Userspace: http://www.openslp.org/
\par 
\par > > * TCP/IP Gratuitous ARP (RFC 2002)
\par > 
\par > not sure
\par 
\par Userspace. Also no tool comes to my mind, arping should be easily 
\par modified
\par to do this.
\par 
\par Dominik
\par -- 
\par           A lovely thing to see:                   Kobayashi Issa
\par      through the paper window's holes               (1763-1828)
\par                 the galaxy.               [taken from: David Brin - Sundiver]
\par \par
}\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb310 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMa8}A.8{\*\bkmkend BMa8}  Ville Herva 27 May 2001\par
{\pard\plain\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb70 \fi0 
\par Date: Sun, 27 May 2001 20:21:19 +0300
\par    From: Ville Herva <vherva@mail.niksula.cs.hut.fi>
\par     To: jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com
\par     Cc: cesar.da.silva@cyberdude.com, linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org
\par   Subject: Re: Please help me fill in the blanks.
\par 
\par > > * Dynamic Memory Resilience
\par > 
\par > RAM fault tolerance?  There was a patch a long time ago which 
\par detected
\par > bad ram, and would mark those memory clusters as unuseable at boot. 
\par > However that is clearly not dynamic.
\par 
\par If you are referring to Badram patch by Rick van Rein
\par (http://rick.vanrein.org/linux/badram/), it doesn't detect the bad ram,
\par memtest86 does that part (and does it well) -- you enter then enter the
\par badram clusters as boot param. But I have to say badram patch works
\par marvellously (thanks, Rick.) Shame it didn't find its way to standard
\par kernel.
\par \par
}}}
}}}